1.  Explain different types of Errors in java?
Ans.  In any programming language we categories errors into 2 types
(a)Syntax Error/Compile time mistakes
(b)Logical Error/Run time mistakes

Syntax error / compile time mistakes
(a)It refers to the mistake done by the programmer with respect to syntax.
(b)These mistake are identified by the compiler so we say it as "CompileTimeMistake".

Logical Error/RumTimeMistakes
(a)It refers to the mistake done by the programmer in terms of writing a logic
(b)These mistake are identified are identified by the jvm during execution of a program so we say it as "RunTimeMistake".

2.  What is an Exception in java.
Ans.  An unwanted/expected event that disturbs the normal flow of execution of a program is called "Exception handling".
(a)The main objective of Exception handling is to handle the exception.
(b)It is available for graceful termination of program.


3.  How can you handle exception in java ? Explain with an example.
Ans.  Exception handling can be performed using :
Try:  the set of statements or code which requires monitoring for an exception is kept under this block.
catch : this block catches all exceptions that were trapped in the try block.
Finally : this block is always performed irrespective of the catching in the try or catch block.

class Lauch
 {
    public static void main(String args[])
     {
        try
          {
             System.out.println("Hello" + " "+1/0);
          }
        catch(ArithmeticException e)
                {
                    System.out.println("World");
                 }
           }
  }



4.  Why do we need exception handling in java?
Ans.  If there is no try and catch block while an exception occurs the program will terminate. Exception handling ensured the smooth running of a program of a program without program termination.


5.  What is the difference between exception and error in java?
Ans. Errors typically happen while an application is running. For instance out of memory error occurs in case the JVM  runs of memory . On the other hand exceptions are aminly caused by the application. For instance Null Pointer Exception happens when an app tries to vet through a numm object.

6.  Name the different types of exceptions in java.
Ans.  Based on handling by JVM there are typically two types of exceptions in java:
checked: occurs during the complication here the compiler checks whether the exception is handled and throws an error accordingly.

unchecked: occur  during program execution. these are not detectable during the compilation process.

7.   Can we just use try instead od finally and catch blocks?Give an example.
Ans.  No doing so will show a compilation error. Catch or finally block must always accompany try block. We can remove either finally block or catch block but never both.